# Copyright statement for MapsEvolved

Copyright (c) 2012-2015, Christian Aichinger <Greek0@gmx.net>

MapsEvolved is distributed under the Apache License 2.0.

Several individual files are taken from projects with differing licenses,
these cases are listed below.

>                                   Apache License
>                             Version 2.0, January 2004
>                          http://www.apache.org/licenses/
>
>     TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION
>
>     1. Definitions.
>
>        "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
>        and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.
>
>        "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
>        the copyright owner that is granting the License.
>
>        "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
>        other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
>        control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
>        "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
>        direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
>        otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
>        outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.
>
>        "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
>        exercising permissions granted by this License.
>
>        "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
>        including but not limited to software source code, documentation
>        source, and configuration files.
>
>        "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
>        transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
>        not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
>        and conversions to other media types.
>
>        "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
>        Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
>        copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
>        (an example is provided in the Appendix below).
>
>        "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
>        form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
>        editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
>        represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
>        of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
>        separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
>        the Work and Derivative Works thereof.
>
>        "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
>        the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
>        to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
>        submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
>        or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
>        the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
>        means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
>        to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
>        communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
>        and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
>        Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
>        excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
>        designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."
>
>        "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
>        on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
>        subsequently incorporated within the Work.
>
>     2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
>        this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
>        worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
>        copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
>        publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
>        Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.
>
>     3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
>        this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
>        worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
>        (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
>        use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
>        where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
>        by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
>        Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
>        with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
>        institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
>        cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
>        or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
>        or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
>        granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
>        as of the date such litigation is filed.
>
>     4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
>        Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
>        modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
>        meet the following conditions:
>
>        (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
>            Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
>
>        (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
>            stating that You changed the files; and
>
>        (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
>            that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
>            attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
>            excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
>            the Derivative Works; and
>
>        (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
>            distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
>            include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
>            within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
>            pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
>            of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
>            as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
>            documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
>            within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
>            wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
>            of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
>            do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
>            notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
>            or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
>            that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
>            as modifying the License.
>
>        You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
>        may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
>        for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
>        for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
>        reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
>        the conditions stated in this License.
>
>     5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
>        any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
>        by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
>        this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
>        Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
>        the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
>        with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
>
>     6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
>        names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
>        except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
>        origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
>
>     7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
>        agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
>        Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
>        WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
>        implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
>        of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
>        PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
>        appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
>        risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.
>
>     8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
>        whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
>        unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
>        negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
>        liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
>        incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
>        result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
>        Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
>        work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
>        other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
>        has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
>
>     9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
>        the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
>        and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
>        or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
>        License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
>        on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
>        of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
>        defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
>        incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
>        of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

# Copyrights for third-party files shipped in the source distribution

## xh_gizmos

The file `pymaplib/xh_gizmos.py` is taken from XRCed and is available under a
2-clause BSD license (also called "FreeBSD license", "Simplified BSD License"):

>     Copyright (c) 2002, Roman Rolinsky <rollrom@users.sourceforge.net>
>     All rights reserved.
>
>     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
>     modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
>
>     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
>       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
>     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
>       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
>       and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
>
>     THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
>     AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
>     IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
>     ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
>     LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
>     CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
>     SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
>     INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
>     CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
>     ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
>     POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

## FamFamFam SILK

The [FamFamFam SILK icon set](http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/) is
included under `mapsevolved/data/famfamfam_silk_icons`.
It was created by [Mark James](mailto:mjames@gmail.com).

It is available under two licenses:
* Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License
* Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License

Custom additions to this library (e.g. map_dhm.png) are also available under
both of those licenses. Furthermore, they can be used under the license
governing Maps Evolved as a whole (i.e. Apache 2.0) if they are not a derived
work of a CC-BY file.

## Map files

`mapsevolved/data/land_shallow_topo_*` and `mapsevolved/data/world.topo.*` are
images from the "Blue Marble" collection of NASA Visible Earth, partially
augmented with geospatial information.

The original data is freely available in the public domain (no copyright),
and can be obtained from:
    http://visibleearth.nasa.gov/view.php?id=57752 and
    http://visibleearth.nasa.gov/view.php?id=74368

Credit for the `land_shallow_topo` images:
NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Image by Reto Stöckli (land surface, shallow
water, clouds). Enhancements by Robert Simmon (ocean color, compositing, 3D
globes, animation). Data and technical support: MODIS Land Group; MODIS Science
Data Support Team; MODIS Atmosphere Group; MODIS Ocean Group Additional data:
USGS EROS Data Center (topography); USGS Terrestrial Remote Sensing Flagstaff
Field Center (Antarctica); Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (city
lights).

Credit for the `world.topo` images:
Reto Stöckli, NASA Earth Observatory


## Boost

[Boost](http://www.boost.org/) provides free peer-reviewed portable C++ source
libraries. A zipfile based on the 1.58 binary distribuition for Windows is
included as ``third-party/boost-mini.zip``.

It includes code contributed by numerous developers, the 1.58 release was
managed by Beman Dawes, Eric Niebler, Rene Rivera, Daniel James, Vladimir Prus
and Marshall Clow.

It can be distributed under the Boost Software License 1.0.

>     Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
>
>     Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
>     obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
>     this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
>     execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
>     Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
>     do so, all subject to the following:
>
>     The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
>     the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
>     must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
>     all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
>     works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
>     a source language processor.
>
>     THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
>     IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
>     FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
>     SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
>     FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
>     ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
>     DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# Copyrights for files only shipped in the binary distribution

MapsEvolved binary packages may further contain data or libraries from other
projects that are not included in the source distribution, but are downloaded
at build time or obtained from the build host.

## gpxpy

[gpxpy](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gpxpy/0.9.8) by Tomo Krajina:
Licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

## wxPython-Phoenix and wxWidgets

[wxPython-Phoenix](http://wxpython.org/Phoenix/docs/html/) by Robin Dunn and
[wxWidgets](https://www.wxwidgets.org) by Dr. Robert Roebling and others.

Both are licensed under the [wxWindows Library Licence, Version 3.1](
https://www.wxwidgets.org/about/licence/) (an LGPL derivative).

Copyrights:  
- wxPython: Copyright (c) 1997-2015 Robin Dunn and Total Control Software
- wxWidgets: Copyright (c) 2002-2015 wxWidgets dev team

>                   wxWindows Library Licence, Version 3.1
>                   ======================================
>
>     Copyright (c) 1998-2005 Julian Smart, Robert Roebling et al
>
>     Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
>     of this licence document, but changing it is not allowed.
>
>                          WXWINDOWS LIBRARY LICENCE
>        TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
>
>     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
>     under the terms of the GNU Library General Public Licence as published by
>     the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the Licence, or (at
>     your option) any later version.
>
>     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
>     WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
>     MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library
>     General Public Licence for more details.
>
>     You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public Licence
>     along with this software, usually in a file named COPYING.LIB.  If not,
>     write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
>     Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
>
>     EXCEPTION NOTICE
>
>     1. As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give
>     permission for additional uses of the text contained in this release of
>     the library as licenced under the wxWindows Library Licence, applying
>     either version 3.1 of the Licence, or (at your option) any later version of
>     the Licence as published by the copyright holders of version
>     3.1 of the Licence document.
>
>     2. The exception is that you may use, copy, link, modify and distribute
>     under your own terms, binary object code versions of works based
>     on the Library.
>
>     3. If you copy code from files distributed under the terms of the GNU
>     General Public Licence or the GNU Library General Public Licence into a
>     copy of this library, as this licence permits, the exception does not
>     apply to the code that you add in this way.  To avoid misleading anyone as
>     to the status of such modified files, you must delete this exception
>     notice from such code and/or adjust the licensing conditions notice
>     accordingly.
>
>     4. If you write modifications of your own for this library, it is your
>     choice whether to permit this exception to apply to your modifications.
>     If you do not wish that, you must delete the exception notice from such
>     code and/or adjust the licensing conditions notice accordingly.

## LibTIFF

[LibTIFF](http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/), originally by Sam Leffler.  
The persons responsible for putting up this site and putting together
versions >= 3.5.1 are Frank Warmerdam, Andrey Kiselev, Bob Friesenhahn, Joris
Van Damme and Lee Howard.

Licensed under a BSD-like license:

>     Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
>     Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
>
>     Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
>     its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
>     that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
>     all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
>     Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
>     publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
>     permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.
>
>     THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
>     EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
>     WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
>
>     IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
>     ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
>     OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
>     WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF
>     LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
>     OF THIS SOFTWARE.

## libgeotiff

[libgeotiff](https://trac.osgeo.org/geotiff/), originally by Niles Ritter and
currently maintained by Frank Warmerdam.

>     All the source code in this toolkit are either in the public domain, or under
>     an X style license.  In any event it is all considered to be free to use
>     for any purpose (including commercial software).  No credit is required
>     though some of the code requires that the specific source code modules
>     retain their existing copyright statements.  The CSV files, and other tables
>     derived from the EPSG coordinate system database are also free to use.  In
>     particular, no part of this code is "copyleft", nor does it imply any
>     requirement for users to disclose this or their own source code.

## libjpeg-turbo

[libjpeg-turbo](http://www.libjpeg-turbo.org)

libjpeg-turbo is covered by three compatible BSD-style licenses:

- The IJG license, which is described in README. This license applies to the
  libjpeg API library and associated programs (basically the IJG code and
  modifications to it.)
- The libjpeg-turbo license, which is described in README-turbo.txt. This is
  a standard 3-clause BSD-style license, and it applies to the TurboJPEG API
  library and associated programs.
- The libjpeg/SIMD license, which is described in simd/jsimdext.inc. This
  license is a subset of the other two, and it applies to the libjpeg-turbo
  SIMD extensions.

Below follows the libjpeg-turbo license, as required for distribution of
binary packages which use the TurboJPEG API (as of April 2015 we don't, but
maybe we will in the future).

>     Most of libjpeg-turbo inherits the non-restrictive, BSD-style license used by
>     libjpeg (see README.)  The TurboJPEG wrapper (both C and Java versions) and
>     associated test programs bear a similar license, which is reproduced below:
>
>     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
>     modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
>
>     - Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
>       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
>     - Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
>       this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
>       and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
>     - Neither the name of the libjpeg-turbo Project nor the names of its
>       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
>       software without specific prior written permission.
>
>     THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS",
>     AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
>     IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
>     ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
>     LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
>     CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
>     SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
>     INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
>     CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
>     ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
>     POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

MapsEvolved statement: This software (MapsEvolved) is based in part on the
work of the Independent JPEG Group.

## proj4

[proj4](https://trac.osgeo.org/proj/), originally by Gerald Evenden and
currently maintained by Frank Warmerdam and Howard Butler. It is available
under an MIT license:

>     All source, data files and other contents of the PROJ.4 package are
>     available under the following terms.  Note that the PROJ 4.3 and earlier
>     was "public domain" as is common with US government work, but apparently
>     this is not a well defined legal term in many countries.  I am placing
>     everything under the following MIT style license because I believe it is
>     effectively the same as public domain, allowing anyone to use the code as
>     they wish, including making proprietary derivatives.
>
>     Though I have put my own name as copyright holder, I don't mean to imply
>     I did the work.  Essentially all work was done by Gerald Evenden.
>
>      --------------
>
>      Copyright (c) 2000, Frank Warmerdam
>
>      Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
>      copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
>      to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
>      the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
>      and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
>      Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
>      The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
>      in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
>      THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
>      OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
>      FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
>      THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
>      LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
>      FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
>      DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## GeographicLib

[GeographicLib](http://geographiclib.sourceforge.net/) by Charles Karney.
It is available under an MIT/X11 license:

>     Copyright (c) 2008-2014, Charles Karney
>
>     Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
>     obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
>     files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
>     restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
>     modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
>     of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
>     furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
>     The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
>     included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
>     THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
>     EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
>     MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
>     NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
>     HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
>     WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
>     OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
>     DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## SIP

[SIP](http://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/sip/intro)
by Phil Thompson and Riverbank Computing.

SIP may be used under any of these three licenses: SIP or GPL-2 or GPL-3.
MapsEvolved uses SIP under the SIP license (a derivative of the Python license):

Copyright (c) 2014 Riverbank Computing Limited; All Rights Reserved.

>     RIVERBANK COMPUTING LIMITED LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR SIP
>
>     1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between Riverbank Computing Limited ("Riverbank"),
>     and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using
>     SIP software in source or binary form and its associated documentation.  SIP
>     comprises a software tool for generating Python bindings for software C and C++
>     libraries, and a Python extension module used at runtime by those generated
>     bindings.
>
>     2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, Riverbank
>     hereby grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to
>     reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative
>     works, distribute, and otherwise use SIP alone or in any derivative version,
>     provided, however, that Riverbank's License Agreement and Riverbank's notice of
>     copyright, e.g., "Copyright (c) 2014 Riverbank Computing Limited; All Rights
>     Reserved" are retained in SIP alone or in any derivative version prepared by
>     Licensee.
>
>     3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
>     incorporates SIP or any part thereof, and wants to make the derivative work
>     available to others as provided herein, then Licensee hereby agrees to include
>     in any such work a brief summary of the changes made to SIP.
>
>     4. Licensee may not use SIP to generate Python bindings for any C or C++
>     library for which bindings are already provided by Riverbank.
>
>     5. Riverbank is making SIP available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis.
>     RIVERBANK MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  BY WAY
>     OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, RIVERBANK MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY
>     REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
>     PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF SIP WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
>
>     6. RIVERBANK SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF SIP FOR ANY
>     INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF MODIFYING,
>     DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING SIP, OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF
>     ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.
>
>     7. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach
>     of its terms and conditions.
>
>     8. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship
>     of agency, partnership, or joint venture between Riverbank and Licensee.  This
>     License Agreement does not grant permission to use Riverbank trademarks or
>     trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote products or services of
>     Licensee, or any third party.
>
>     9. By copying, installing or otherwise using SIP, Licensee agrees to be bound
>     by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.

## Python

[Python](https://www.python.org) by Guido van Rossum and others.
It is available under the Python Software Foundation License Version 2.

Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010,
2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 Python Software Foundation; All Rights Reserved.

>     PYTHON SOFTWARE FOUNDATION LICENSE VERSION 2
>     --------------------------------------------
>
>     1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Python Software Foundation
>     ("PSF"), and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and
>     otherwise using this software ("Python") in source or binary form and
>     its associated documentation.
>
>     2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, PSF
>     hereby grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide
>     license to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly,
>     prepare derivative works, distribute, and otherwise use Python alone
>     or in any derivative version, provided, however, that PSF's License
>     Agreement and PSF's notice of copyright, i.e., "Copyright (c) 2001,
>     2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012,
>     2013, 2014 Python Software Foundation; All Rights Reserved" are
>     retained in Python alone or in any derivative version prepared by
>     Licensee.
>
>     3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on
>     or incorporates Python or any part thereof, and wants to make
>     the derivative work available to others as provided herein, then
>     Licensee hereby agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of
>     the changes made to Python.
>
>     4. PSF is making Python available to Licensee on an "AS IS"
>     basis.  PSF MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
>     IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, PSF MAKES NO AND
>     DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
>     FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF PYTHON WILL NOT
>     INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
>
>     5. PSF SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON
>     FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS
>     A RESULT OF MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON,
>     OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.
>
>     6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material
>     breach of its terms and conditions.
>
>     7. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any
>     relationship of agency, partnership, or joint venture between PSF and
>     Licensee.  This License Agreement does not grant permission to use PSF
>     trademarks or trade name in a trademark sense to endorse or promote
>     products or services of Licensee, or any third party.
>
>     8. By copying, installing or otherwise using Python, Licensee
>     agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License
>     Agreement.
